as the Sun warms the sodden landscape
wild Japanese honeybees are on the move
each year they leave their old nest and
swarm the honey reserves stored in our
stomachs won't last long and they must
find a new home as a matter of urgency
it's something Yamaguchi plans to take
advantage of spring is a magical time
the countryside bursts into life blossom
decorates the trees and the sky hummons
with the sound of insects it is also
time to collect my wild bees
[Music]
all I need is an orchid in blue
and an empty beehive
[Music]
now I must wait
when his oriental orchid casts its spell
on the breeze deceit is in the air it's
not long before a wild honeybee is
bewitched it's not nectar that's lured
it in but the smell of its mortal enemy
thinking it's a hornet the bee attacks
the petals
[Music]
determined to fight
she becomes ensnared forced to bear
pollen from the plant by mimicking the
pheromone of the giant Hornet the orchid
is exploiting the ancient antagonism
between the two insects
another pheromone calls in more bees
they cannot overcome their instinct to
attack what they believe to be their
greatest enemy some bees
tire of the fight and turn their
attention to the empty high nest sites
in the wild are hard to find so this is
a gift but then they all desert perhaps
the hive isn't good enough yamaguchi
remains patient he has faith in the
orchids power over the bees
and then they come
[Music]
the whole swarm destroys the orchid
bloom and they've brought their queen
she approves of their new home
[Music]
the scarred orchid is testament to the
bees hatred of their bitter rival the
Japanese giant Hornet
[Music]